# IRPCDS_LUAD
Programmed cell death (PCD) is an active process of cell death that maintains tissue homeostasis or responds to specific physiological or pathological conditions. Increasing evidence indicates that PCD is involved in the occurrence, development, prognosis, and immunotherapy response of tumors. Although the relationship between individual PCD modes and LUAD has been extensively investigated, integrating all PCD signatures and understanding their collective roles in LUAD remains a key priority for future research. In this study, we integrated 18 PCD signatures and developed an immune-related PCD signature (IRPCDS) using 10 machine learning algorithms and 101 algorithm combinations. The IRPCDS demonstrated robust performance across multiple validation cohorts, effectively predicting the clinical prognosis of LUAD patients and stratifying them into different risk groups to guide precise interventions. Notably, IRPCDS outperformed traditional clinicopathological factors and previously published 52 signatures in predicting overall survival (OS). Patients in the low-risk group demonstrated high levels of immune infiltration and showed a favorable response to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). In contrast, patients in the high-risk group had a higher overall mutation burden and an increased frequency of mutations in driver genes linked to LUAD. Furthermore, we also validated the expression of the IRPCDS gene at both the transcriptional and protein levels in multiple datasets and in clinical specimens.
